Welcome back.
How do we handle asynchronous code because our code is not always going to be synchronous.
We can't always just use try catch when we have an asynchronous function and an error occurs inside
of it.
Our script would have continue with our execution so that by the time this returns with an error well
this entire script would have been done and the way we handle these types of errors in Javascript is
using the catch method now in this video.
I'm going to show you how to handle errors in promises and also an async await which will have an interesting
way of handling errors so let's start off with promises and to make things that easy.
I'm going to use the shorthand syntax of promise.
Dot resolve which just returns a promise.
See that over here.
So it returns a promise that results right away.
And I can just give it a piece of text here.
Let's say async fail so that it returns a promise with async fail.
It won't show over here because in order to catch a promise we need to do or in order to get the value
from a promise that returns.
We need a dot.
Then as we've seen in the asynchronous part of the course.
Now in here I'll get a response and this response will be returned right here and I can just console
log.
Response
if I click run here.
Look at that I get async fill.
All right so so far so good.
Everything is working but let's say we have a nother dot then promising or dot then block here that
gets a response.
We can just return the same response
and that's still going to run.
We're console long response twice.
Okay but let's say something happens in our code and instead of getting to this console log and the
return statement we're going to throw a new there that simply says no one fail I run this hmm.
I didn't get anything.
No errors and this is a big gotcha especially on browsers where if we don't catch something especially
an asynchronous code it does what we call a silent fail it fails silently.
So our code could have failed and we have no idea as programmers that it's failed.
It's extremely dangerous so we need to make sure that with our promises we always have a dot catch clause.
And honestly I can't think of any reason not to have a dot catch with a promise to make sure that you
catch everything and it works just like the try catch block or the catch part of the try catch block.
We simply receive an error and inside of here I can just console log the actual error so that if I run
this look at that I get error number one fail.
Now the interesting thing here is that because I return the response we should get a console dialog
here but it never happens.
Right because we throw the new error and the JavaScript engine says All right I'm not doing anything
more whereas a hurdle whereas a catch and it's going to find a catch block here and say All right here's
the error console log this error.
So we're handling this issue now.
You can actually keep going here.
If I had let's say a nother dot then and here and this dot then actually well let's say returns or receives
the error that this cache block receives.
Well if I run this look at that it console logs the error because I can do anything I want to.
And the catch block right.
If I return the error here the dot then is going to receive the response and this will be the error.
So if I do response dot message I get no one fail and I can keep chaining these I can say dot catch
over here and this receives another error that lets say console logs final error if I run this that's
never going to run because when the throw new error happens the JavaScript engine says All right who's
gonna catch me.
It's gonna keep going down and say oh I just got caught by something and now once it's caught it's handled.
So unless we throw a new air here it's not going to get caught.
So if I do air number two and I run this.
There you go.
Final air gets caught and that's the only error that happens because well we pass this into the first
catch block and then we throw another air from here because let's say we don't know what to do with
it.
And then the next catch block catches it.
Now the interesting thing here is if we go back to our original issue where we don't catch anything
in our program silently fails that's bad right.
In programs like No G Yes which is another runtime and I have here a rebel that uses no G S instead
of JavaScript so you can see over here that we're using Node version nine point seven.
If I run this because it's a different runtime it's going to handle that error differently.
If I click Run I get something called on handled promise rejection warning and I guarantee you if you're
working with promises you're going to see that many times in your career where you mistakenly forget
to catch an acing care with their promise and node is telling you hey hey a promise rejection happens
and this error originated because well you didn't have a catch block so you need to make sure that you
add a doc catch so depending on the runtime it gets handled differently.
And this is extremely dangerous and programs like let's say a node server where you want the server
running constantly.
If you haven't handled promise rejection it could spell your application might be leaving a critical
error on attendant.
So you want to be really really careful with that.
And a big gotcha when it comes to error handling asynchronous code.
Now if we go back to this example let's say that we've fixed our promises.
So we have a catch block now.
But let's say we have a another promise inside of a promise.
So next it promises something like this where we have a promise dot resolve once again inside of here
and this is going to have a dot then that well for now we don't have to worry about the response because
inside of here I want to throw a new error and this error is going to say number three fail.
What do you think will happen here well if I run this
I get final error.
But what is this on defined.
Well if in here let's say I return five and I click Run look at that console log five works because
this dot then block has asynchronous code inside of it.
Well it doesn't really care what happens the promise when it first runs is a pending promise.
So it goes to the next line.
There's no error inside of this because it reads it synchronicity and it returns five which gets received
here as dot then we console log the response and we have five the final error runs because we throw
the error in here.
So if I've removed this cache block and I click Run here all right.
The error is still there because we throw in air and our program keeps going up the stack until we find
something that catches us that's good.
But it still has some surprising behavior here with the fight.
What happens if we run this code in.
Note If I go over here and I copy and paste and I run this Oh I get the same thing but I get this Eragon
on handled promise rejection warning it's saying Hey buddy you're not handling your promises properly.
You have another promise here and this one doesn't get handled it just gets handled by the enclosing
scope which I mean it is a little bit confusing.
Luckily for you you've added the dog catch.
But is that really what you intended.
Again this is not good right.
Ideally we catch something for each promise so that in here we can catch and let's just canceled all
log the error here so that if I run this I get error three fail.
We're now handling it with this console log.
But hold on a second.
We still have final error.
Why is that.
Again this is where promises get really really tricky and you want to make sure that you're handling
your errors properly.
You see see this response dot message.
Do you think that exists if I remove this message from here and do run.
Did you see that it is now on the fight because we don't receive any responses here.
Remember we returned five and this dot then block receives it and console logs and this dog then block
doesn't return anything.
So when I did response that message that was actually the error that was being thrown and being cut
by the final error and if you're confused right now what this shows you how tricky it can be to handle
asynchronous promises.
So you want to make sure to really understand your flow and that on each level you're handling these
promises with a dot catch call and that instead of having something like final error you're actually
logging out the air to understand what's happening so let's fix this let's remove this from here.
The final error will be actually logging out our air so that if I run this.
All right.
Everything is now good.
We're handling our promises each individually.
Right here with the DOT catch and everything is working well.
If I run this in node and I click Run.
All right.
Perfect.
We're handling our errors perfectly and there's no on handled promised rejection.
Awesome.
Now this was a little complicated but I hope it started to make sense although there are some cases
where it can get a little difficult.
And luckily for us because this chaining can get really overwhelming and complicated we have the new
async await in JavaScript right.
Which we've learned about in our async part of the course.
Now we can handle these things a little bit different than we've handled those promises.
I mean async await underneath the hood are still promises but the way we handle them can be a lot simpler.
Let's find out how that works in the next video.